# Glyph Tower Simulator

Simulates Tunic's "Glyph Tower" puzzle.

If you have not solved the puzzle, you can use this tool to efficiently test input sequences and save a record of your inputs + results.

For puzzle-lovers that want an extra challenge, I encourage you to try to reverse-engineer the glyph generation rules on your own! I figured it all out using pen and paper, carefully observing how the glyphs change when pressing the four directions.

### Spoilers

This project contains the following **spoilers**:
1. `solution.py` and `solution.txt` contain golden path spoilers and also include the solution input sequence to the Glyph Tower puzzle. If you run the program normally without any advanced arguments, it will not spoil the solution. Just don't open these files if you don't know the solution.
2. I've included labels beneath each glyph that attempt to interpret them. If you don't yet understand how to read Trunic, this is a spoiler. The in-game hint for solving Glyph Tower is written in Trunic so you should figure out how to read it first anyway before using this tool.

### Basic Instructions (Windows 10 only):

1. Double click `run.bat` to open.
2. Press the arrow keys to control the glyphs.
3. "Save Log" buttons writes all directional inputs since the program started or since "Save Log" was last pressed. These are saved to `glyph_tower_output.log` by default.
4. "Save Image" takes screen capture of the application window and saves it to `glyph_tower_output.jpg` by default.
5. "Reset" resets all glyphs to their original state.

### Advanced Instructions

`glyph_tower_simulator.py` is the main python script for the application.
I've included the `venv` folder generated by PyCharm, which includes python 3.11 and all required modules.
`run.bat` just runs `venv\Scripts\python.exe glyph_tower_simulator.py`.

I've only tested this on Windows, so your mileage may vary on Mac or Linux.
`run.bat` won't work on those platforms, but you can easily change it to a shell script that will (rename to `run.sh` or `run.command` and change the backslashes to forward slashes), or just run via terminal.

Running the application from the terminal also allows you to do the following:
1. See a history of your directional inputs as you enter them.
2. Process a directional input sequence specified by a file.
3. Change the "Save Log" and "Save Image" output file names.
4. Configure the glyphs to start visible.
5. Hide the labels below the glyphs.

Use `-i` to specify an input file. The first 4 characters of the file are
called the _key_. The key should be immediately followed by a semicolon (;).
These 4 characters will be used to interpret the rest of the file.
They represent the directions LEFT, RIGHT, UP, DOWN in that order.
Any occurrences of those characters in the file appearing after the
semicolon (;) will be parsed as directional inputs. All other characters
will be ignored, so feel free to include spaces, newlines, commas, etc.

Examples of good keys: `LRUD`, `EWNS`, `wasd`, `←→↑↓`

`-i solution.txt` will show the result of successfully entering solution inputs.

Command line options:
```
  -h, --help       show this help message and exit
  -i INPUT_FILE    Input file containing directional instructions
  -o OUTPUT_IMAGE  Output file to save an image of the result window
  -l OUTPUT_LOG    Output file to save a log of all valid inputs since the program started or the last time the log was written to. Does not display errors or other program output.
  --start-visible  Show glyphs in their initial state if no input is entered
  --hide-labels    Hide the labels that interpret each glyph
```